[Identity] Migration guide (#17796)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-js: sdk/identity/identity/CHANGELOG.md

  - Errors and logged exceptions may now point to the new [troubleshooting guidelines](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/Troubleshooting.md).

The following example shows how to use the `DeviceCodeCredential` with the new `@azure/identity-cache-persistence` plugin. We are setting the `disableAutomaticAuthentication` option on the `DeviceCodeCredential` to manually trigger the user interaction. Then, we're using the new `@azure/identity-cache-persistence` plugin to enable sharing the same persistence cache between credential instances, and finally we're sharing the resulting `authenticationRecord` from a first `authenticate()` call with a new instance of the same credential to skip further user interactions on the next `getToken()` call.

> ```ts

Reviewer: instead of inlining this rather large code sample, can we place it somewhere in the source tree and link to it? That way it will get updated as needed

Author: I’m now making this way shorter and linking to the sample docs.

- For the credentials `ClientSecretCredential` and `ClientCertificateCredential`, we've added regional STS support.
  - First, we've added a new enum type called `RegionalAuthority`, which contains values for all of the possible regions supported by Azure.
  - Then, we've added a new property called `regionalAuthority` to the `ClientSecretCredentialOptions` and the `ClientCertificateCredentialOptions`, however the Azure region can also be specified through the `AZURE_REGIONAL_AUTHORITY_NAME` environment variable. If instead of a region, `AutoDiscoverRegion` is specified as the value for `regionalAuthority`, MSAL will be used to attempt to discover the region.
- For `ClientCertificateCredential` specifically, now the validity of the PEM certificate is evaluated on `getToken` and not on the constructor.
- Specifically for the `ManagedIdentityCredential`:
  - It now supports Bridge to Kubernetes local development authentication.
  - It now retries with exponential back-off when a request for a token fails with a 404 status code on environments with available IMDS endpoints. Besides that, the `ManagedIdentityCredential` now also supports token exchange authentication.

>   - Azure Service Fabric support hasn't been added on the initial version 2 of Identity. It will be added shortly after. You can follow our development of this feature through this issue: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/issues/12420

Author: The Identity crew specifically requested for this line to be in our changelog, or at least a similar one.

# Release History

## 2.0.0 (2021-10-12)

We're proud to announce the first GA release of the `@azure/identity` v2 package. The v2 package includes the best parts of v1, plus several improvements.

This changelog entry showcases the changes that have been made. For a v1-to-v2 migration guide, see the [migration guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/migration-v1-v2.md).

### Features Added

#### Plugin API

Identity v2 provides a top-level `useIdentityPlugin` method, which allows using two new plugin packages:

- [@azure/identity-vscode](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/identity-vscode), which provides the dependencies of `VisualStudioCodeCredential` and enables it.
- [@azure/identity-cache-persistence](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/identity-cache-persistence), which provides persistent token caching.
- If the `@azure/identity-vscode` plugin isn't used through the `useIdentityPlugin` function, the `VisualStudioCodeCredential` exposed by Identity v2 will throw a `CredentialUnavailableError`.

> Most credentials on Identity v2 now include a constructor option called `tokenCachePersistenceOptions`. If set to `tokenCachePersistenceOptions: { enabled: true }`, it will enable persistent token caching on that credential instance.

Reviewer 2: Since we are setting this to `{ enabled: true }` and not just `true`, it might be worth calling out that there are other things that can be configured for the persistent cache features. It would also be useful to point from here to a place where we talk a bit more about the persistent cache feature and how it works.

```suggestion
Most credentials on Identity v2 now support the persistent token caching feature. Such credentials include the property [tokenCachePersistenceOptions](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/@azure/identity/tokencachepersistenceoptions) in the constructor options which can be used to enable this feature.
```

Additionally, you can add the sample code here as an example. Just because there is a plugin involved.

```js
import { cachePersistencePlugin } from "@azure/identity-cache-persistence";
import { useIdentityPlugin, DeviceCodeCredential } from "@azure/identity";

useIdentityPlugin(cachePersistencePlugin);

async function main() {
  const credential = new DeviceCodeCredential({
    tokenCachePersistenceOptions: {
      enabled: true
    }
  });
}
```

Author: Let me know how it looks now!

#### New credentials

Identity v2 includes three new credential types:

- `AzurePowerShellCredential`, which re-uses any account previously authenticated with the `Az.Account` PowerShell module.
- `ApplicationCredential`, which is a simplified `DefaultAzureCredential` that only includes `EnvironmentCredential` and `ManagedIdentityCredential`.
- `OnBehalfOfCredential`, which enables the [On-Behalf-Of authentication flow](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-on-behalf-of-flow).

> #### Changes to all credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### New features in all credentials
```

Identity v2 enables:

> - Support for claims challenges resulting from [Continuous Access Enforcement (CAE)](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/conditional-access/concept-continuous-access-evaluation) and [Conditional Access authentication context](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-active-directory-identity/granular-conditional-access-for-sensitive-data-and-actions/ba-p/1751775). To disable this behavior, set the environment variable `AZURE_IDENTITY_DISABLE_CP1` to any value. For more about claims challenges, see [Claims challenges, claims requests, and client capabilities](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/claims-challenge).

Reviewer 2: I thought CAE was something that the consuming libraries implements and the Identity package was oblivious to it

Author: It is both!

Reviewer 2: So, this is relevant for package owners, but not necessarily to end users? Regarding the note on disabling this feature, can we add something that sheds light on when someone would want to disable this feature?

Author: Users working with these credentials directly already have to figure out their own way to refresh tokens. The default change in v2 is that now every token they will get will have been gotten through a process that tells AAD to try to initiate the claims challenge flow when te token expires. This can be disabled through the environment variable in case the users don’t want Azure to answer to requests with expired tokens with the challenge claims.

🤔 I’ll put something like that.

Author: Let me know how it looks now!

> - Multi-tenant authentication on all credentials except `ManagedIdentityCredential`. To disable it, set the environment variable `AZURE_IDENTITY_DISABLE_MULTITENANTAUTH`. For more about multitenancy, see [Identity management in multitenant apps](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/architecture/multitenant-identity/).

Reviewer 2: What is the scenario where one would want to disable multi tenant auth?

Author: I know we need to support it, and feature-wise it makes sense to me to allow devs to stop this “automated tenant switch” on getToken, but I need to ask what are the concrete scenarios 🤔

Author: I have reached out to the Identity crew and the environment variable is to ensure this behavioral change can be reverted. A way to future-proof it.

Reviewer 2: As a user, I would like to know when should I be disabling this feature. Is there anything we can add for that?

Author: It really depends on how they’re implementing this. Using our SDKs, they currently will not be encountering scenarios where the getToken request has a `tenantId`. However, if they want multi-tenancy, they will have to implement this on their own (send the new tenantId on getToken). Over time we will be adding more support for multi-tenancy.

I can say something like that. I’ll update this.

Author: Let me know how it looks now!

> #### Changes to interactive credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### New features in InteractiveBrowserCredential and DeviceCodeCredential
```

Changes have been made to `InteractiveBrowserCredential` and `DeviceCodeCredential`:

- Interactive authentication can be controlled by setting `disableAutomaticAuthentication` to `true` on the constructor of these credentials. This will prevent `getToken` from prompting for user interaction.

> - These credentials now have a new `authentication()` method, which always triggers user interaction.

Reviewer 2: Should we re-use the content in https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/04e92bc9ca9e3a0d57f816bb2a788ad2d9c53156/sdk/identity/identity/CHANGELOG.md#new-features-1 on this subject? That was very clear on what this setting does where as now, it is not that clear

Author: Can do! I’m worried about the length of this, but I understand your point.

> Read more about controlling user interaction in our [samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/samples/AzureIdentityExamples.md#control-user-interaction).

A successful call to `authenticate()` will return an `AuthenticationRecord`, which can be provided to new instances of these credentials to reuse previously obtained access tokens, avoiding further user interaction.

> Read more about persisting user authentication data in our [samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/samples/AzureIdentityExamples.md#persist-user-authentication-data).

> #### Client credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### New features in ClientSecretCredential and ClientCertificateCredential
```

> Identity v2 adds better support for regional endpoints on the `ClientSecretCredential` and `ClientCertificateCredential` credentials. These credentials have a new `regionalAuthority` optional property on their constructors. Additionally, a new `enum` type with all of the Azure regions is available as `RegionalAuthority`.

Reviewer 2: I thought we don't want to use enums in our exported API anymore. Did that change?

Author: I need to ask again about this. This is a very long one though. But turns out the Identity crew decided to not release this in this GA, so I’ll remove this entry.

The Azure region can also be specified through the `AZURE_REGIONAL_AUTHORITY_NAME` environment variable. If instead of a region, `AutoDiscoverRegion` is specified as the value for `regionalAuthority`, MSAL will be used to attempt to discover the region.

> #### Managed Identity credential

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### New features in Managed Identity credential
```

In Identity v2, the `ManagedIdentityCredential` retries with exponential back-off when a request for a token fails with a 404 status code. This change only applies to environments with available IMDS endpoints.

> Azure Service Fabric support hasn't been added on the initial version 2 of Identity. Follow the development of this feature through [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/issues/12420).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Azure Service Fabric support hasn't been added on the initial version 2 of Identity. Subscribe to [issue #12420](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/issues/12420) for updates on this feature.
```

> #### Other changes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Other features
```

- The Node.js version of `InteractiveBrowserCredential` has [Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7636) enabled by default.
- `InteractiveBrowserCredential` has a new `loginHint` constructor option, which allows a username to be pre-selected for interactive logins.
- In `AzureCliCredential`, we allow specifying a `tenantId` in the parameters through the `AzureCliCredentialOptions`.
- A new error, named `AuthenticationRequiredError`, has been added. This error shows up when a credential fails to authenticate silently.
- Errors and logged exceptions may point to the new [troubleshooting guidelines](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/Troubleshooting.md).

### Breaking Changes

#### Breaking Changes from v1

> - On all of the credentials we're providing, the initial authentication attempt in the lifetime of your app will include an additional request to first discover relevant endpoint metadata information from Azure.

Reviewer 2: Why is this under breaking changes?

Author: We have had users complaining about unexpected network requests in the past. It’s a behavioral change that might break them. It did break our tests for a bit.

Author: I’ll move it to other changes 🤔

- For `ClientCertificateCredential` specifically, the validity of the PEM certificate is evaluated on `getToken` and not on the constructor.
- We have also renamed the error `CredentialUnavailable` to `CredentialUnavailableError`, to align with the naming convention used for error classes in the Azure SDKs in JavaScript.

> - In v1 of Identity some `getToken` calls could resolve with `null`. In v2, issues with the `getToken` method will always throw errors.

Reviewer 2: It is worth calling out the scenarios where the `null` was returned

Author: Only in the edge case in which the service returned with a 200 status code and a malformed body. This shouldn’t have ever been a reasonable return case on Identity. Should we still mention it?

Author: I will mention this more or less as I’m expressing it here.

- The `InteractiveBrowserCredential` will use the [Auth Code Flow](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow) with [PKCE](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7636) rather than [Implicit Grant Flow](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-implicit-grant-flow) to better support browsers with enhanced security restrictions. Learn how to migrate in the [migration guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/migration-v1-v2.md). Read more about the latest `InteractiveBrowserCredential` [here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/interactive-browser-credential.md).
- The default client ID used for `InteractiveBrowserCredential` was viable only in Node.js and not for the browser. Therefore, on v2 client ID is a required parameter when using this credential in browser apps.

> - Identity v2 also removes the `postLogoutRedirectUri` from the options to the constructor for `InteractiveBrowserCredential`. This option wasn't being used. Instead of using this option, use MSAL directly. For more information, see [Authenticating with the @azure/msal-browser Public Client](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/samples/AzureIdentityExamples.md#authenticating-with-the-azuremsal-browser-public-client).

Reviewer 2: Lets club these and make them sub bullet points under `Breaking changes to InteractiveBrowserCredential`. Helps with readability and people not using this credential can skip the entire section

Author: I think I did this 🤔 let me know if I missed something.

Reviewer 2: I didnt meant to suggest that we make a new section/header for `Breaking changes to InteractiveBrowserCredential`. I meant something like

```
- previous point
- Breaking changes to InteractiveBrowserCredential:
   - auth code flow ...
   - client id stuff
   - etc
 ```

Author: ohh ok ok

Author: Let me know how it looks now!

# Release History

## 2.0.0 (2021-10-12)

After multiple beta releases over the past year, we're proud to announce the general availability of version 2 of the `@azure/identity` v2 package. This version includes the best parts of v1, plus several improvements.

This changelog entry showcases the changes that have been made from version 1 of this package. See the [v1-to-v2 migration guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/migration-v1-v2.md) for details on how to upgrade your application to use the version 2 of `@azure/identity`.

### Features Added

#### Plugin API

> Identity v2 provides a top-level `useIdentityPlugin` method, which allows using two new plugin packages:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Identity v2 provides a top-level `useIdentityPlugin` function, which allows using two new plugin packages:
```

A new method `authenticate()` is added to these credentials which is similar to `getToken()`, but it does not read the `disableAutomaticAuthentication` option described above.

- Use this to get an `AuthenticationRecord` which you can then use to create new credentials that will re-use the token information.
- The `AuthenticationRecord` object has a `serialize()` method that allows an authenticated account to be stored as a string and re-used in another credential at any time. Use the new helper function `deserializeAuthenticationRecord` to de-serialize this string.
- `authenticate()` might succeed and still return `undefined` if we're unable to pick just one account record from the cache. This might happen if the cache is being used by more than one credential, or if multiple users have authenticated using the same Client ID and Tenant ID. To ensure consistency on a program with many users, please keep track of the `AuthenticationRecord` and provide them in the constructors of the credentials on initialization.

> > Read more about controlling user interaction in our [samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/samples/AzureIdentityExamples.md#control-user-interaction).
> 
> > Read more about persisting user authentication data in our [samples](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/samples/AzureIdentityExamples.md#persist-user-authentication-data).

Reviewer 2: Suggestion for more accessible link texts:

```suggestion
Learn more via the below samples
- [Samples around controlling user interaction]https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/samples/AzureIdentityExamples.md#control-user-interaction).
- [Samples around persisting user authentication data](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/samples/AzureIdentityExamples.md#persist-user-authentication-data).
```

- The default client ID used for `InteractiveBrowserCredential` was viable only in Node.js and not for the browser. Therefore, on v2 client ID is a required parameter when using this credential in browser apps.
- Identity v2 also removes the `postLogoutRedirectUri` from the options to the constructor for `InteractiveBrowserCredential`. This option wasn't being used. Instead of using this option, use MSAL directly. For more information, see [Authenticating with the @azure/msal-browser Public Client](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/samples/AzureIdentityExamples.md#authenticating-with-the-azuremsal-browser-public-client).
- In Identity v2, `VisualStudioCodeCredential` throws a `CredentialUnavailableError` unless the new [@azure/identity-vscode](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/identity-vscode) plugin is used.

#### Breaking Changes from 2.0.0-beta.4

- Removed the `allowMultiTenantAuthentication` option from all of the credentials. Multi-tenant authentication is now enabled by default. On Node.js, it can be disabled with the `AZURE_IDENTITY_DISABLE_MULTITENANTAUTH` environment variable.

### Bugs Fixed

> `ClientSecretCredential`, `ClientCertificateCredential`, and `UsernamePasswordCredential` throw if the required parameters aren't provided (even in JavaScript).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ClientSecretCredential`, `ClientCertificateCredential`, and `UsernamePasswordCredential` throw if the required parameters aren't provided (even in JavaScript).
```

> `ClientSecretCredential`, `ClientCertificateCredential`, and `UsernamePasswordCredential` throw if the required parameters aren't provided (even in JavaScript).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ClientSecretCredential`, `ClientCertificateCredential`, and `UsernamePasswordCredential` throw if the required parameters aren't provided (even in JavaScript).
```
